One morning, when Gregor Samsa woke from troubled dreams, he found himself trans
formed in his bed into a horrible vermin.He lay on his armour-like back, and if 
he lifted his head a little he could see his brown belly, slightly domed and div
ided by arches into stiff sections.The bedding was hardly able to cover it and s
eemed ready to slide off any moment.His many legs, pitifully thin compared with 
the size of the rest of him, waved about helplessly as he looked. "What's happen
ed to me?" he thought. It wasn't a dream. His room, a proper human room although
 a little too small, lay peacefully between its four familiar walls.A collection
 of textile samples lay spread out on the table - Samsa was a travelling salesma
n - and above it there hung a picture that he had recently cut out of an illustr
ated magazine and housed in a nice, gilded frame.It showed a lady fitted out wit
h a fur hat and fur boa who sat upright, raising a heavy fur muff that covered t
he whole of her lower arm towards the viewer.Gregor then turned to look out the 
window at the dull weather. Drops of rain could be heard hitting the pane, which
 made him feel quite sad."How about if I sleep a little bit longer and forget al
l this nonsense", he thought, but that was something he was unable to do because
 he was used to sleeping on his right, and in his present state couldn't get int
o that position.However hard he threw himself onto his right, he always rolled b
ack to where he was.He must have tried it a hundred times, shut his eyes so that
 he wouldn't have to look at the floundering legs, and only stopped when he bega
n to feel a mild, dull pain there that he had never felt before."Oh, God", he th
ought, "what a strenuous career it is that I've chosen! Travelling day in and da
y out.Doing business like this takes much more effort than doing your own busine
ss at home, and on top of that there's the curse of travelling, worries about ma
king train connections, bad and irregular food, contact with different people al
l the time so that you can never get to know anyone or become friendly with them
.It can all go to Hell!" He felt a slight itch up on his belly; pushed himself s
lowly up on his back towards the headboard so that he could lift his head better
; found where the itch was, and saw that it was covered with lots of little whit
e spots which he didn't know what to make of; and when he tried to feel the plac
e with one of his legs he drew it quickly back because as soon as he touched it 
he was overcome by a cold shudder.He slid back into his former position. "Gettin
g up early all the time", he thought, "it makes you stupid.You've got to get eno
ugh sleep. Other travelling salesmen live a life of luxury.For instance, wheneve
r I go back to the guest house during the morning to copy out the contract, thes
e gentlemen are always still sitting there eating their breakfasts.I ought to ju
st try that with my boss; I'd get kicked out on the spot. But who knows, maybe t
hat would be the best thing for me.If I didn't have my parents to think about I'
d have given in my notice a long time ago, I'd have gone up to the boss and told
 him just what I think, tell him everything I would, let him know just what I fe
el.He'd fall right off his desk!And it's a funny sort of business to be sitting 
up there at your desk, talking down at your subordinates from up there, especial
ly when you have to go right up close because the boss is hard of hearing.Well, 
there's still some hope; once I've got the money together to pay off my parents'
 debt to him - another five or six years I suppose - that's definitely what I'll
 do.That's when I'll make the big change. First of all though, I've got to get u
p, my train leaves at five." And he looked over at the alarm clock, ticking on t
he chest of drawers. "God in Heaven! " he thought.It was half past six and the h
ands were quietly moving forwards, it was even later than half past, more like q
uarter to seven.Had the alarm clock not rung?He could see from the bed that it h
ad been set for four o'clock as it should have been; it certainly must have rung
.Yes, but was it possible to quietly sleep through that furniture-rattling noise
?True, he had not slept peacefully, but probably all the more deeply because of 
that. What should he do now?The next train went at seven; if he were to catch th
at he would have to rush like mad and the collection of samples was still not pa
cked, and he did not at all feel particularly fresh and lively.And even if he di
d catch the train he would not avoid his boss's anger as the office assistant wo
uld have been there to see the five o'clock train go, he would have put in his r
eport about Gregor's not being there a long time ago.The office assistant was th
e boss's man, spineless, and with no understanding. What about if he reported si
ck?But that would be extremely strained and suspicious as in fifteen years of se
rvice Gregor had never once yet been ill.His boss would certainly come round wit
h the doctor from the medical insurance company, accuse his parents of having a 
lazy son, and accept the doctor's recommendation not to make any claim as the do
ctor believed that no-one was ever ill but that many were workshy.And what's mor
e, would he have been entirely wrong in this case? Gregor