One morning, when Gregor Samsa woke from
 troubled dreams, he found himself trans
formed in his bed into a horrible vermin
.He lay on his armour-like back, and if 
he lifted his head a little he could see
 his brown belly, slightly domed and div
ided by arches into stiff sections.The b
edding was hardly able to cover it and s
eemed ready to slide off any moment.His 
many legs, pitifully thin compared with 
the size of the rest of him, waved about
 helplessly as he looked. "What's happen
ed to me?" he thought. It wasn't a dream
. His room, a proper human room although
 a little too small, lay peacefully betw
een its four familiar walls.A collection
 of textile samples lay spread out on th
e table - Samsa was a travelling salesma
n - and above it there hung a picture th
at he had recently cut out of an illustr
ated magazine and housed in a nice, gild
ed frame.It showed a lady fitted out wit
h a fur hat and fur boa who sat upright,
 raising a heavy fur muff that covered t
he whole of her lower arm towards the vi
ewer.Gregor then turned to look out the 
window at the dull weather. Drops of rai
n could be heard hitting the pane, which
 made him feel quite sad."How about if I
 sleep a little bit longer and forget al
l this nonsense", he thought, but that w
as something he was unable to do because
 he was used to sleeping on his right, a
nd in his present state couldn't get int
o that position.However hard he threw hi
mself onto his right, he always rolled b
ack to where he was.He must have tried i
t a hundred times, shut his eyes so that
 he wouldn't have to look at the flounde
ring legs, and only stopped when he bega
n to feel a mild, dull pain there that h
e had never felt before."Oh, God", he th
ought, "what a strenuous career it is th
at I've chosen! Travelling day in and da
y out.Doing business like this takes muc
h more effort than doing your own busine
ss at home, and on top of that there's t
he curse of travelling, worries about ma
king train connections, bad and irregula
r food, contact with different people al
l the time so that you can never get to 
know anyone or become friendly with them
.It can all go to Hell!" He felt a sligh
t itch up on his belly; pushed himself s
lowly up on his back towards the headboa
rd so that he could lift his head better
; found where the itch was, and saw that
 it was covered with lots of little whit
e spots which he didn't know what to mak
e of; and when he tried to feel the plac
e with one of his legs he drew it quickl
y back because as soon as he touched it 
he was overcome by a cold shudder.He sli
d back into his former position. "Gettin
g up early all the time", he thought, "i
t makes you stupid.You've got to get eno
ugh sleep. Other travelling salesmen liv
e a life of luxury.For instance, wheneve
r I go back to the guest house during th
e morning to copy out the contract, thes
e gentlemen are always still sitting the
re eating their breakfasts.I ought to ju
st try that with my boss; I'd get kicked
 out on the spot. But who knows, maybe t
hat would be the best thing for me.If I 
didn't have my parents to think about I'
d have given in my notice a long time ag
o, I'd have gone up to the boss and told
 him just what I think, tell him everyth
ing I would, let him know just what I fe
el.He'd fall right off his desk!And it's
 a funny sort of business to be sitting 
up there at your desk, talking down at y
our subordinates from up there, especial
ly when you have to go right up close be
cause the boss is hard of hearing.Well, 
there's still some hope; once I've got t
he money together to pay off my parents'
 debt to him - another five or six years
 I suppose - that's definitely what I'll
 do.That's when I'll make the big change
. First of all though, I've got to get u
p, my train leaves at five." And he look
ed over at the alarm clock, ticking on t
he chest of drawers. "God in Heaven! " h
e thought.It was half past six and the h
ands were quietly moving forwards, it wa
s even later than half past, more like q
uarter to seven.Had the alarm clock not 
rung?He could see from the bed that it h
ad been set for four o'clock as it shoul
d have been; it certainly must have rung
.Yes, but was it possible to quietly sle
ep through that furniture-rattling noise
?True, he had not slept peacefully, but 
probably all the more deeply because of 
that. What should he do now?The next tra
in went at seven; if he were to catch th
at he would have to rush like mad and th
e collection of samples was still not pa
cked, and he did not at all feel particu
larly fresh and lively.And even if he di
d catch the train he would not avoid his
 boss's anger as the office assistant wo
uld have been there to see the five o'cl
ock train go, he would have put in his r
eport about Gregor's not being there a l
ong time ago.The office assistant was th
e boss's man, spineless, and with no und
erstanding. What about if he reported si
ck?But that would be extremely strained 
and suspicious as in fifteen years of se
rvice Gregor had never once yet been ill
.His boss would certainly come round wit
h the doctor from the medical insurance 
company, accuse his parents of having a 
lazy son, and accept the doctor's recomm
endation not to make any claim as the do
ctor believed that no-one was ever ill b
ut that many were workshy.And what's mor
e, would he have been entirely wrong in 
this case? Gregor